♪ Opening Song ♪
[ADASHINO]
Hmm...
A mushi that devours silence...
One that causes horns
to grow on its living host?
It's quite rare...
Quite rare indeed.
Hey, what's that?
[GINKO] The cup of a
young man whose left hand
could breathe life
into his artwork.
Oh, please...
That boy's distrust for
mushi masters is well-known.
I doubt he'd give you an
audience, let alone that cup.
Now, now...
There isn't any
obligation to buy it...
...Dr. Adashino.
I just thought this
prize would go to waste
in someone else's collection.
[ADASHINO]
All right, come on.
Let me take a look.
[GINKO]
I'm willing to sell it.
And at a bargain price,
but only if you'll help me.
[GINKO]
On my way here,
I encountered something
very strange.
I'd like to capture it.
Something strange, huh?
That's right.
In all your studies...
Have you ever heard
of a liquid mushi
that can travel
from place to place?
A living swamp?
[GINKO] As I traveled
through the mountains...
I encountered many swamps.
Come on... Another one?
[splashing]
[GINKO]
Hm?
Every time I went around one,
I would glance over my shoulder
and notice something
very puzzling.
[GINKO] The swamp had
completely vanished,
leaving no trace
of itself behind.
Then when I crossed
the next mountain,
I was met with
another surprise...
A swamp exactly like
the one I'd just seen.
You forest spirits sure like
to play tricks, don't you?
It's you again.
I saw you at the last swamp.
That was you, wasn't it?
Can you tell me if
there's a shortcut
through these mountains?
[GINKO] I thought she might
be a hallucination at first.
[GINKO] Her hair was
this unearthly green.
[gasps]
[GINKO] It seemed as if
the waters of the swamp
had saturated it to the root.
[IO]
Excuse me?
What lies in this direction?
Beyond the next hill?
[GINKO]
Hm?
I'll answer. But only if
you let me ask a question.
Is that fair enough?
[GINKO]
This swamp we're in.
There's nothing ordinary
about it, is there?
[IO]
This swamp...
It travels, you see.
It comes up, sinks
down in the ground,
and then resurfaces
in a new spot.
It's on a very
important journey.
Like you, it seeks a passage
through these mountains.
Huh... A living swamp.
That's incredible.
So, are you moving along
with it as it travels?
[GINKO]
Why?
What for?
[GINKO]
Well, then, anyway...
If you keep heading
in that direction,
you'll reach the sea.
I'm headed to a fishing village
there to see an old friend.
Once the swamp reaches the sea,
it'll be impossible for you
to travel with it, you know?
[GINKO]
Oh, by the way...
If it's all right with you...
I'd like to study this sample of
the swamp water in the morning.
Yeah, sure.
It's too dark to
tell right now...
But it might be a new species.
[IO] I have to admit, I didn't
think you would believe me...
...about this swamp
traveling from place to place.
[GINKO]
Well...
Let's just say I'm...
...used to strange things
in my line of work.
Line of work?
[GINKO]
I'm a mushi master.
Mushi and their
related phenomena...
They're all pretty strange.
Let's take the suiko,
for example.
A species of mushi...
...that exists as a liquid.
Suiko is clear and colorless...
...yet alive.
[GINKO] It dwells primarily
in old water veins.
Sometimes even in
ponds and wells.
If one mistakes suiko for
water and keeps drinking it,
they soon become
unable to breathe
unless they're immersed in it.
And even worse, their body
becomes transparent.
Eventually, the body turns to
liquid... and then flows away.
[GINKO]
The mushi then disappears.
To where is anyone's guess.
So if things like
that can exist...
...the idea of a traveling
swamp isn't too hard to swallow.
You get used to it.
What about you?
Didn't you ever find all
this to be frightening?
[IO]
Not at all.
I never found any of this
to be frightening or strange.
In fact, the first
time I saw it...
I got quite a
different impression.
It was awe-inspiring.
Awe-inspiring?
How do you mean?
[IO]
I was swimming, you see.
The current grew strong.
It pulled me down into
the depths of the river.
[IO]
I was swallowed by the waters,
unable to find my way
back to the surface.
[IO]
I was dying...
Then I saw it.
Immense and green...
[IO]
The thing rose to meet me.
Then it embraced me
within its folds.
[IO] When I awoke, I was laying
on the banks of a swamp
somewhere in the mountains.
This color...
[IO]
That's when I realized.
The green thing that saved me
had undergone a
metamorphosis of some sort.
It had taken the
shape of the swamp.
My hair changed, too.
Green...
Like everything else
that lives here.
It's a small price
to pay, though.
I'd be dead if it
weren't for this swamp.
You know...
When it engulfed me,
the swamp actually spoke.
It said, "You may live."
It granted me a new life
and I'll never leave it.
This swamp is the only place
I can ever call home.
[MOTHER]
Oh, yes...
It looks beautiful on you.
[MOTHER] Fitting wedding attire
for the bride-to-be of a...
...water spirit.
[ELDER]
We will look after your mother.
Do not worry for her.
Now, child, as you go to
face your fate, have no fear.
Instead, take comfort
in the fact that
your name will become legend.
All will know of the noble girl
whose sacrifice appeased
the raging flood
and saved her village
from its wrath.
[IO] If one keeps drinking it,
their body becomes transparent.
It liquefies...
Then it flows away.
Time to go, huh?
[GINKO]
Hm?
[GINKO gasps]
It's... all going underground!
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Hey, why are you leaving?!
Wait a minute!
I wanted to study you, too.
Thank you for teaching me
about so many things.
But now...
I must again become
part of the swamp.
[GINKO]
No! Wait!
It's gone!
Dammit...!
Why didn't I see it before?
So this is what happens
when a suiko disappears.
It doesn't just vanish
as previously thought.
It simply stays
underground as it travels.
[IO]
But now...
I must again become
part of the swamp.
[GINKO]
Is she mad?
Doesn't she know what will
happen if she sees this through?
[IO] When it engulfed me,
the swamp actually spoke.
It said, "You may live."
[GINKO]
You...
You wanted to live, didn't you?
[GINKO]
This living swamp...
It's heading for the sea.
[ADASHINO]
Hm...
A swamp heading for the sea?
Have you ever heard of this?
[ADASHINO]
Well, now that you mention it,
I think I just might have.
An old fisherman told
me a story years ago
about a big green something that
followed the river to the sea.
It was larger than a whale
and when it reached the sea,
it disintegrated.
Just melted away.
This man...
...never claimed
to see the thing.
But his father did.
In his opinion, it was
looking for a place to die.
Come. Time is of the essence.
[ADASHINO] Since we haven't
heard any commotion
from the fishermen,
I'll wager that your swamp
hasn't arrived here as of yet.
Ah, here it is!
A map of the underground
water veins in the area.
It's quite rare.
It was drafted based
on the findings
of dowsing rods a few years ago.
[GINKO]
How accurate is it?
[ADASHINO] Judging by some
test wells that were dug,
I'd say fifty-fifty.
[GINKO] The locations
of the swamps I saw
correspond with
these water veins.
Does the suiko travel along
them as if they were roads?
This vein... It looks
like it goes to the sea.
But it forks here.
Makes the swamp's location
hard to pin down.
Ginko.
Up here.
I've got another map.
It's an older one--
also quite rare--
and it shows where the rivers
were thousands of years ago.
The estuaries are
still in the same place,
but the rivers have
significantly changed.
[GINKO]
Enough, already.
Quit boasting about
your collection
and come down here and
help me figure this--
Let me see that.
They're identical.
Interesting...
These water veins were
a river a long time ago.
But at some point,
it dried up.
Over time, all that remained was
a layer of stones
buried underground.
Rainwater drains into the ground
and then seeps towards
that layer of rock.
[GINKO]
Once it's there,
it gathers in the form
of these water veins.
An underground river...
[GINKO]
If that swamp is ancient,
it may very well be
following its memory
of how the old river flowed.
Heading for a predestined
place to... die.
Just like a salmon
or a sweetfish.
[GINKO] If it follows this vein,
it will emerge in this estuary.
If it reaches the sea,
it's too late.
Adashino!
[ADASHINO]
Hm?
[GINKO]
Get as many people as you can
and the biggest fishing
nets in the village!
That's it...!
Pull it...!
Come on!
[FISHERMAN yell]
[ADASHINO] So many of you
turned out to help us.
Thank you so much.
You're welcome.
Besides, we fishermen
have a lot of idle time
on our hands right now.
This time of year, there's so
few fish in these waters
that you'd think the sea
had gone and died.
After all you've done for us,
we'd do anything
for you, Dr. Adashino.
[GINKO] Being a doctor
bought you this loyalty?
Not just that.
Don't forget...
I'm charming.
[ADASHINO]
Be honest.
Even after all this effort,
you really don't know
if these nets will actually
snag that girl, do you?
[GINKO]
No...
But it's the only chance I
think we have at saving her.
[ADASHINO]
Tell me...
Why is this so
important to you?
This girl...
Why does she weigh so
heavy on your conscience?
[ADASHINO] I could sympathize
with your concern better
if the girl had said
she wanted to live.
But from what you told me,
it sounds like her sole desire
was to become part of the swamp.
Perhaps this path she has
chosen brings her happiness.
And if that's so,
should we deny her fate?
However cruel it may seem?
You know that green cup
that I brought you?
[ADASHINO]
Huh?
It's a re-creation of one
that belonged to that
young man's grandmother.
She brought the original
to a mushi banquet that
was unfortunately cut short.
That left her trapped in
limbo between two worlds,
and in a ghostly state that
was neither mushi nor human.
[GINKO]
Re-creating that cup
allowed her grandson
to see her again.
[GINKO]
But that stole her humanity.
I made her mushi because
she requested it.
But I...
I question if I did
the right thing or not.
[GINKO] Becoming mushi isn't
like a traditional death.
Mushi occupy a spot between
the living and the dead.
That means, the person
still lives in one sense...
But then they're dead
in yet another.
Imagine what
that must be like.
Wouldn't a natural death
be more tolerable
than living for eons?
A life where everything
that made you human
is whittled away, bit by bit,
until absolutely
none of it remains?
That's the sad fate for
which the girl is headed.
She even dressed up
for the occasion.
Her kimono would suit a wedding.
Or in her case,
someone's funeral.
So yes, this
cruel fate of hers...
It is one to be denied.
If you ask me,
there's nothing out there.
[yawns]
[splashing]
[WOMAN A]
What was that?
Did you hear something?
--[gong clanging]
--[FISHERMAN D] It's here!
It's here!
[FISHERMAN G]
Hold on!
[FISHERMAN H]
What is that thing?!
Hold it tight!
I've got a clear shot!
No! Stop!
There's a woman in there!
[FISHERMAN I]
Huh?!
[FISHERMAN K]
Hang on!
Don't let go!
[FISHERMEN yell]
[GINKO gasps]
[FISHERMAN L] It... It
slipped through the net.
[FISHERMAN M] I thought I saw
someone in a red kimono.
[GINKO]
Damn...
Were we too late?
Hey, look!
I haven't caught a
school this big in ages!
Have you?!
No, it's incredible!
[FISHERMAN N]
Huh?
[screams]
What is that thing?!
[VILLAGER]
Doctor! Quick! Come look!
[ADASHINO]
Ginko!
They found the girl!
She's alive!
[ADASHINO]
But her body...
It's transparent.
[FISHERMAN O]
Doctor?
[FISHERMAN P]
How's the girl doing?
The seawater washed
off green pigmentation,
but I'm still concerned
about her condition.
Her body... it's like
uncooked dough.
You should see the
number of fish out there!
They're in a frenzy eating
what's left of that green thing!
The sea's overflowing
with fish, Doctor!
[WOMAN C]
What a catch they'll make!
If you ask me,
that girl's coming
is a blessing to this village!
You're awake!
[GINKO]
Can you hear me?
[IO sobs]
When we finally
reached... the sea...
...I knew that the
swamp... was dying.
Part of me...
...was so terrified of dying.
But I was also...
...so very sad that
the-- the swamp...
It was dying all around me...
And now it's gone...
[sobs]
That swamp lived for
thousands of years.
It chose you to accompany
it on its final journey.
[GINKO]
You're very fortunate.
[IO]
Yes...
[GIRLS laughing]
Io!
Hey there!
Dr. Adashino! Hello!
[ADASHINO] Ah! Looks like
Another big catch today?
[IO]
Yes...
Fish are still swarming
in from all around.
The swamp's remains
draw them here.
They feast on it.
So... I see that your
hair has changed.
It has...
And that's not all.
I can't breathe underwater
anymore, either.
But I've come to accept that.
I'll live a happy life here...
...on the shores of the sea...
...where the swamp died.
More swamps. Terrific.
[GINKO]
One... two... three... four...
And here I thought that
it left no trace of itself.
[scoffs]
[GINKO]
It was coming up to the surface
to leave its children behind.
[NARRATOR]
A swamp is born...
...but eventually goes dry.
Such is the life of a swamp.
But the swamp does not always
accept its fate with good cheer.
When the life within its
waters begins to fade...
...it sometimes walks away.
[NARRATOR] Next:
"Those Who Inhale the Dew."